## Setting Out to C++

1. <a href = "#1"> C++ Initiation
2. <a href = "#2"> The Function Header as an Interface
3. <a href = "#3"> The C++ Preprocessor and the iostream File
4. <a href = "#4"> Header Filenames
5. <a href = "#5">
6. <a href = "#6"> 
7. <a href = "#7">
8. <a href = "#8">
9. <a href = "#9">

<h3 id = "1"> C++ Initiation</h3>
```c++
#include <iostream>								// a PREPROCESSOR directive
int main()										// function header
{												// start of function body
	using namespace std;						// make definitions visible
	cout << "Come up and C++ me some time.";	// message
	cout << endl;								// start a new line
	cout << "You won’t regret it!" << endl;		// more output
	return 0;									// terminate main()
}												// end of function body
```

Some windowing environments run the program in a separate window and then automatically close the window when the program finishes. As discussed in Chapter 1, you can make the window stay open until you strike a key by adding the following line of code before the return statement:
`cin.get();`

If you’re used to programming in C, seeing `cout` instead of the `printf()` function might
come as a minor shock. C++ can, in fact, use `printf()`, `scanf()`, and all the other standard C input and output functions, provided that you include the usual C `stdio.h` file. But this is a C++ book, so it uses C++’s input facilities, which improve in many ways upon the C versions.

You construct C++ programs from building blocks called functions. Typically, you
organize a program into major tasks and then design separate functions to handle those
tasks.

<h3 id = "2">The Function Header as an Interface</h3>
Many existing programs use the classic C function header instead:

```C++
main() // original C style
```

Under classic C, omitting the return type is the same as saying that the function is type
`int`. However, C++ has phased out that usage.

You can also use this variant:

```C++
int main(void) // very explicit style
```

<h3 id = "3">The C++ Preprocessor and the iostream File</h3>
If your program is to use the usual C++ input or output facilities, you provide these two lines:

```C++
#include <iostream>
using namespace std;
```

C++, like C, uses a *preprocessor*. This is a program that processes a source file before the main compilation takes place. You don’t have to do anything special to invoke this preprocessor. It automatically operates when you compile the program.

Listing 2.1 uses the #include directive:

```C++
#include <iostream> // a PREPROCESSOR directive
```

This directive causes the preprocessor to add the contents of the `iostream` file to your
program. This is a typical preprocessor action: adding or replacing text in the source code before it’s compiled.

This raises the question of why you should add the contents of the `iostream` file to
the program. The answer concerns communication between the program and the outside
world.

This raises the question of why you should add the contents of the iostream file to
the program. The answer concerns communication between the program and the outside
world. The `io` in `iostream` refers to input, which is information brought into the program, and to output, which is information sent out from the program. C++’s input/output scheme involves several definitions found in the iostream file. Your first program needs these definitions to use the `cout` facility to display a message. The `#include` directive causes the contents of the iostream file to be sent along with the contents of your file to the compiler. In essence, the contents of the `iostream` file replace the `#include` <iostream> line in the program. Your original file is not altered, but a composite file formed from your file and `iostream` goes on to the next stage of compilation.

Programs that use `cin` and `cout` for input and output must include the iostream file.

<h3 id = "4">Header Filenames</h3>

Files such as `iostream` are called `include` files (because they are included in other files) or header files